#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{times,graphics}

%\renewcommand{\baselinestretch}{1.5}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options false
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_math auto
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 11
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 0
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 1in
\topmargin 1in
\rightmargin 1in
\bottommargin 1in
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Reading for Oct.
 30 section discussion
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The goal of this problem is to think carefully about the design and interpretati
on of simulation studies.
 In particular, we'll work with Lo et al.
 (2001), a recent article in JASA (the Journal of the American Statistical
 Association), which is a leading statistics journal.
 The article is available as 
\emph on
lo_etal_2001.pdf
\emph default
 under the 
\emph on
ps
\emph default
 directory on Github.
 Read the first three pages and Section 3 of the article.
 You don't need to understand their algorithm for testing the null hypothesis
 [i.e., you can treat it as some black box algorithm] or the theoretical developme
nt, though it may help to skim through some of the material on the algorithm
 for context.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
For problem 1 of PS6, briefly answer the following questions.
 Before section on Monday Oct.
 30, please put your answers to these questions in a text file named 
\emph on
ps6_question1.txt
\emph default
 and push to the 
\emph on
ps6
\emph default
 directory of your Github repository.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
What are the goals of their simulation study and what are the metrics that
 they consider in assessing their method?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
What choices did the authors have to make in designing their simulation
 study? What are the key aspects of the data generating mechanism that likely
 affect the statistical power of the test? Are there data-generating scenarios
 that the authors did not consider that would be useful to consider?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Do their tables do a good job of presenting the simulation results and do
 you have any alternative suggestions for how to do this? 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Interpret their tables on power (Tables 2 and 4) - do the results make sense
 in terms of how the power varies as a function of the data generating mechanism
?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
How do you think the authors decided to use 1000 simulations.
 Would 10 simulations be enough? How might we decide if 1000 simulations
 is enough? 
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
